
1. Fed Proc. 1984 Feb;43(2):220-5.

Anaerobic energy metabolism of invertebrates.

Hammen CS, Ellington WR.


PMID: 6692942  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Cancer Res. 1984 Mar;44(3):1072-6.

Inhibitory effect of antioxidants ethoxyquin and 2(3)-tert-butyl-4-hydroxyanisole
on hepatic tumorigenesis in rats fed ciprofibrate, a peroxisome proliferator.

Rao MS, Lalwani ND, Watanabe TK, Reddy JK.

The objective of this study was to test the hypothesis that hepatocarcinogenesis 
by peroxisome proliferators, a novel class of chemical carcinogens, is mediated
either directly by carcinogenic H2O2, generated by peroxisomal oxidase(s) or
indirectly by free radicals produced from H2O2, and that antioxidants could
retard or inhibit neoplasia by scavenging active oxygen (super-oxide radicals
O(2), hydrogen peroxide, hydroxyl radicals HO, and singlet oxygen 1O2).
Accordingly, the effect of synthetic antioxidants
2(3)-tert-butyl-14-hydroxyanisole and ethoxyquin on the peroxisome proliferator
2-[4-(2,2-dichlorocyclopropyl)phenoxy]2-methyl-propionic acid
(ciprofibrate)-induced hepatic tumorigenesis has been examined in male Fischer
344 rats. Rats were fed either a 2(3)-tert-butyl-4-hydroxyanisole (0.5% w/w)- or 
ethoxyquin (0.5% w/w)-containing diet with or without ciprofibrate (10 mg/kg of
body weight) for 60 weeks. Rats fed ciprofibrate (10 mg/kg of body weight) in the
diet or fed a diet with no added chemicals served as controls. Results of this
study demonstrated that ethoxyquin markedly inhibited the hepatic tumorigenic
effect of ciprofibrate, as evidenced by a decreased incidence of tumors, a
decreased number of tumors per liver, and a reduced tumor size.
2(3)-tert-Butyl-4-hydroxyanisole also caused a significant decrease in the
incidence and number of hepatocellular carcinomas that were larger than 5 mm. The
present data suggest that the inhibitory effect of antioxidants on
ciprofibrate-induced hepatic tumorigenesis may be due to H2O2 and free
radical-scavenging property of ethoxyquin and 2(3)-tert-butyl-4-hydroxyanisole,
since these antioxidants do not prevent peroxisome proliferation and induction of
H2O2-generating peroxisomal enzymes in livers of rats fed ciprofibrate. Whether
the inhibitory effect of antioxidants is exercised on the presumptive H2O2
initiation process and/or on the postinitiation growth phase of foci and nodules 
in liver is, at present, unknown.


PMID: 6692393  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Am J Surg. 1984 Jan;147(1):43-8.

Treatment of epidermoid anal canal cancer.

Salmon RJ, Fenton J, Asselain B, Mathieu G, Girodet J, Durand JC, Decroix Y,
Pilleron JP, Rousseau J.

Between 1968 and 1979, 183 patients with invasive epidermoid cancer of the anal
canal were treated at Institut Curie. There was 156 women, 27 men with a mean age
of 67 +/- 11 years (range 40 to 85 years). The initial height of the tumor was
less than 4 cm (65 patients), 4 to 6 cm (98 patients), and more than 6 cm (20
patients). All the patients received radiotherapy, either preoperatively or as
curative procedure. Twenty-five patients received preoperative radiotherapy, and 
there was no residual tumor in 9 biopsies obtained at operation. Four local
recurrences were observed. One hundred fifty-eight patients received curative
radiotherapy, 115 of whom did not undergo operation. Eighty were alive with no
evidence of disease and good anal function with a minimum of 3 years follow-up.
We observed 15 local recurrences, 4 inguinal recurrences, and 8 visceral
metastases. In addition, eight patients initially had such a big tumor that
radiotherapy was only a palliative procedure. Forty-three patients required a
surgical procedure after this curative radiotherapy. Colostomy (12 patients) or
abdominoperineal amputation (25 patients) was required for local recurrence and
colostomy was required for necrosis related to radiotherapy. Five year survival
was 59 percent. The survival was related to the size of the tumor (p less than
0.0001). The likelihood of retaining normal anal function with local control of
the tumor was also closely related to the initial size of the tumor.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9610(84)90032-1 
PMID: 6691550  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1. N Engl J Med. 1984 Feb 2;310(5):273-8.

Clinical use of the total artificial heart.

DeVries WC, Anderson JL, Joyce LD, Anderson FL, Hammond EH, Jarvik RK, Kolff WJ.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2004 Feb 5;350(6):542-4.

We report here our first experience with the use of a total artificial heart in a
human being. The heart was developed at the University of Utah, and the patient
was a 61-year-old man with chronic congestive heart failure due to primary
cardiomyopathy, who also had chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Except for
dysfunction of the prosthetic mitral valve, which required replacement of the
left-heart prosthesis on the 13th postoperative day, the artificial heart
functioned well for the entire postoperative course of 112 days. The mean blood
pressure was 84 +/- 8 mm Hg, and cardiac output was generally maintained at 6.7
+/- 0.8 liters per minute for the right heart and 7.5 +/- 0.8 for the left,
resulting in postoperative diuresis and relief of congestive failure. The
postoperative course was complicated by recurrent pulmonary insufficiency,
several episodes of acute renal failure, episodes of fever of unidentified cause 
(necessitating multiple courses of antibiotics), hemorrhagic complications of
anticoagulation, and one generalized seizure of uncertain cause. On the 92nd
postoperative day, the patient had diarrhea and vomiting, leading to aspiration
pneumonia and sepsis. Death occurred on the 112th day, preceded by progressive
renal failure and refractory hypotension, despite maintenance of cardiac output. 
Autopsy revealed extensive pseudomembranous colitis, acute tubular necrosis,
peritoneal and pleural effusion, centrilobular emphysema, and chronic bronchitis 
with fibrosis and bronchiectasis. The artificial heart system was intact and
uninvolved by thrombosis or infectious processes. This experience should
encourage further clinical trials with the artificial heart, but we emphasize
that the procedure is still highly experimental. Further experience, development,
and discussion will be required before more general application of the device can
be recommended.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM198402023100501 
PMID: 6690950  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1. J Virol. 1984 Jan;49(1):283-6.

Effect of novobiocin on mycoplasma virus L2 replication.

Poddar SK, Maniloff J.

L2 is a temperate mycoplasma virus containing 11.8 kilobase pairs of negatively
superhelical double-stranded DNA. We observed L2 DNA with less superhelicity in
novobiocin-treated cells than that in untreated cells. However, although no
change in viral DNA superhelicity could be found in novobiocin-treated
novobiocin-resistant cells, L2 production decreased in these novobiocin-treated
cells.


PMCID: PMC255456
PMID: 6690717  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Cancer Chemother Pharmacol. 1984;12(1):39-42.

Phase-I trial of UltrapureTM human leukocyte interferon in human malignancy.

Budd GT, Bukowski RM, Miketo L, Yen-Lieberman B, Proffitt MR.

A phase-I trial of UltrapureTM human leukocyte (alpha) interferon was performed, 
in which 15 patients were treated according to a dose-ranging protocol. Five
patients were treated at each of these dosage levels: 2 X 10(6) IU/dose, 9 X
10(6) IU/dose, and 15 X 10(6) IU/dose. Doses were given on days 1-5 and 8-12 of a
28-day study period. Serial NK-cell assays were performed in all patients, and
failed to show consistent effects referable to treatment. Serum interferon levels
were assayed on one patient at the 9 X 10(6) IU and one patient at the 15 X 10(6)
IU dose level. In both cases, a significant interferon titer (greater than or
equal to 160) was detected in the serum, and this persisted for as long as 12 h. 
Fever, malaise, and myalgias were associated with therapy. The dose-limiting
toxicity was a dose-related leukopenia, with median white blood cell nadirs of
6,500/mm3 (3 X 10(6) IU/dose), 3,200/mm3 (9 X 10(6) IU/dose), and 1,800/mm3 (15 X
10(6) IU/dose) being produced. One patient died in ventricular fibrillation while
suffering chest pain after receiving 5 days of treatment at the 15 X 10(6)
IU/dose level. Three patients showed minor responses, insufficient to be called
partial responses, in association with interferon therapy. We conclude that
dose-limiting leukopenia occurs with this schedule of administration of
UltrapureTM human leukocyte interferon at 15 X 10(6) IU/dose.


PMID: 6690072  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Arch Neurol. 1984 Jan;41(1):16.

Pontine ataxic hemiparesis.

Van Buggenhout E, Dehaene I, Van Zandijcke M.

DOI: 10.1001/archneur.1984.04050130018011 
PMID: 6689883  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Nihon Hinyokika Gakkai Zasshi. 1983 Aug;74(8):1297-312.

[Studies of the xenotransplantation of human urogenital carcinomas into nude
mice. (2). Establishment of transplantable tumors and evaluation of anticancer
drugs].

[Article in Japanese]

Tsukamoto T, Kumamoto Y.


PMID: 6687128  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Nihon Ketsueki Gakkai Zasshi. 1983 Dec;46(7):1551-7.

Role of the platelet in maintaining the integrity of the vascular endothelial
cell.

Kakishita E.


PMID: 6687101  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Urologe A. 1983 Sep;22 Suppl:393.

[New results of the treatment of metastasized testicular tumors in early and late
stages].

[Article in German]

Seeber S, Schütte J, Niederle N, Schmidt CG.


PMID: 6685390  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

